README.md, before:

<a id="root"></a>

<p align="right">
  <picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Cloud.png" alt="Cloud" width="35" height="35" /></picture>
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Crescent%20Moon.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Sun.png">
    <img alt="Shows an illustrated sun in light mode and a moon with stars in dark mode." src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Sun.png" width="30" height="30" />
  </picture>
  <picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Cloud.png" alt="Cloud" width="19" height="19" /></picture>
</p>
<h1 align="center"><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/File%20Folder.png" alt="Folder" width="60" height="60" /></picture><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Owl.png" alt="Owl" width="60" height="60" /></picture><br>eslint&#8209;plugin-project&#8209;structure</h1>

<p align="center">ESLint plugin with rules to help you achieve a scalable, consistent, and well-structured project.</p>
<p align="center">Create your own framework! Define your folder structure, advanced naming conventions, file composition, and create independent modules.</p>
<p align="center">Take your project to the next level and save time by automating the review of key principles of a healthy project!</p>

<div align="center">

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/eslint-plugin-project-structure.svg?&logo=nodedotjs&color=%231f6feb)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-project-structure#root)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dy/eslint-plugin-project-structure.svg?&logo=nodedotjs&label=Downloads&color=%238957e5)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-project-structure#root)
[![Check, test, build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/check.yml?&logo=github&color=%23238636&label=Check%2C%20test%2C%20build)](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/actions/workflows/check.yml)
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sponsor-%E2%9D%A4-%23db61a2.svg?&logo=github&color=%23db61a2)](https://github.com/sponsors/Igorkowalski94)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure?label=Star)](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure)

</div>

## 📋 General information

🎮[Playground](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure-playground#readme) for eslint-plugin-project-structure rules.

Become part of the community!<br>
Leave a ⭐ and share the link with your friends.<br>

- If you have any questions or need help creating a configuration that meets your requirements, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/discussions/new?category=help).
- If you have found a bug or an error in the documentation, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/issues/new?assignees=Igorkowalski94&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.md&title=%5BBUG%5D).
- If you have an idea for a new feature or an improvement to an existing one, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/discussions/new?category=ideas).
- If you're interested in discussing project structures across different frameworks or want to vote on a proposed new feature, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/discussions?discussions_q=).

## 📚 Documentation

- [Migration guide to 2.3.0](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/Migration-guide-to-2.3.0)
- [project-structure/folder-structure](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bfolder%E2%80%91structure#root)
- [project-structure/independent-modules](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bindependent%E2%80%91modules#root)
- [project-structure/naming-rules](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bnaming%E2%80%91rules#root)

<h2 align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bfolder%E2%80%91structure#root">project&#8209;structure/&#8203;folder&#8209;structure</a></h2>
<p align="center">Enforce rules on folder structure to keep your project consistent, orderly and well thought out.</p>

<h4><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Rocket.png" alt="Rocket" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Features:</h4>

- Validation of folder structure. Any files/folders outside the structure will be considered an error.
- File/Folder name regex validation with features like wildcard `*` and treating `.` as a character, along with other conveniences.
- Build in case validation.
- Inheriting the folder's name. The file/folder inherits the name of the folder in which it is located. Option of adding your own prefixes/suffixes or changing the case.
- Enforcing the existence of a files/folders when a specific file/folder exists. For example, if `./src/Component.tsx` exists, then `./src/Component.test.tsx` and `./src/stories/Component.stories.tsx` must also exist.
- Reusable rules for folder structures.
- An option to create a separate configuration file with TypeScript support.
- Forcing a nested/flat structure for a given folder.
- Support for all file extensions.
- Folder recursion. You can nest a given folder structure recursively.
- Fewer repetitions and precise error messages, even for deeply nested folders (recursion), by representing the folder structure as a tree.

<h2 align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bindependent%E2%80%91modules#root">project&#8209;structure/&#8203;independent&#8209;modules</a></h2>
<p align="center">A key principle of a healthy project is to prevent the creation of a massive dependency tree,
where removing or editing one feature triggers a chain reaction that impacts the entire project.</p>
<p align="center">Create independent modules to keep your project scalable and easy to maintain. Get rid of dependencies between modules and create truly independent functionalities.</p>

<h4><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Rocket.png" alt="Rocket" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Features:</h4>

- Creating independent modules in which you control what can be imported (e.g. types, functions, components of one functionality cannot be imported into another functionality).
- The ability to create very detailed rules, even for nested folder structures. Whether it's a large module, a sub-module, or a single file, there are no limitations.
- Disabling external imports (node_modules) for a given module (Option to add exceptions).
- Non-relative/relative imports support.
- Support for imports without extension.
- Reusable import patterns.
- Support for path aliases. The plugin will automatically detect your tsconfig.json and use your settings. There is also an option to enter them manually.
- An option to create a separate configuration file with TypeScript support.

<h2 align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bnaming%E2%80%91rules#root">project&#8209;structure/&#8203;naming&#8209;rules</a></h2>
<p align="center">Enforce advanced naming rules and prohibit the use of given selectors in a given file.</p>
<p align="center">Have full control over what your file can contain and the naming conventions it must follow.</p>

<h4><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Rocket.png" alt="Rocket" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Features:</h4>

- Naming validation.
- Supported selectors: `class`, `variable`, `function`, `arrowFunction`, `type`, `interface`, `enum`.
- Naming rules for exported selectors, selectors in the root of the file and nested/all selectors in the file. They can be used together in combination.
- Prohibit the use of given selectors in a given file. For example, `**/*.consts.ts` files can only contain variables, `**/*.types.ts` files can only contain enums, interfaces and types.
- Inheriting the filename as the selector name. Option to add your own prefixes/suffixes, change the case, or remove parts of the filename.
- Enforcing a maximum of one main function/class per file.
- Different name rules for different files.
- Regex validation.
- Build in case validation.
- An option to create a separate configuration file with TypeScript support.

<h2><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Party%20Popper.png" alt="Party Popper" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Sponsors</h2>

<p align="center">A big thank you to all the <a href="https://github.com/sponsors/Igorkowalski94">sponsors</a> for your support! You give me the strength and motivation to keep going!</p>
<p align="center"> Thanks to you, I can help others create their ideal projects!</p>
<p align="center"><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Love-You%20Gesture.png" alt="Love-You Gesture" width="60px" height="60px" /></picture><p>

Commit message:

Refactor folder-structure and add path length validation

README.md, after:

<a id="root"></a>

<p align="right">
  <picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Cloud.png" alt="Cloud" width="35" height="35" /></picture>
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Crescent%20Moon.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Sun.png">
    <img alt="Shows an illustrated sun in light mode and a moon with stars in dark mode." src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Sun.png" width="30" height="30" />
  </picture>
  <picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Cloud.png" alt="Cloud" width="19" height="19" /></picture>
</p>
<h1 align="center"><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/File%20Folder.png" alt="Folder" width="60" height="60" /></picture><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Owl.png" alt="Owl" width="60" height="60" /></picture><br>eslint&#8209;plugin-project&#8209;structure</h1>

<p align="center">ESLint plugin with rules to help you achieve a scalable, consistent, and well-structured project.</p>
<p align="center">Create your own framework! Define your folder structure, advanced naming conventions, file composition, and create independent modules.</p>
<p align="center">Take your project to the next level and save time by automating the review of key principles of a healthy project!</p>

<div align="center">

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/eslint-plugin-project-structure.svg?&logo=nodedotjs&color=%231f6feb&labelColor=%23212830)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-project-structure#root)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dy/eslint-plugin-project-structure.svg?&logo=nodedotjs&label=Downloads&color=%238957e5&labelColor=%23212830)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-project-structure#root)
[![Check, test, build](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/check.yml?&logo=github&color=%23238636&label=Check%2C%20test%2C%20build&labelColor=%23212830)](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/actions/workflows/check.yml)
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sponsor-grey?logo=githubsponsors&style=flat&color=%23212830)](https://github.com/sponsors/Igorkowalski94)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure?label=Star)](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure)

</div>

## 📋 General information

🎮[Playground](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure-playground#readme) for eslint-plugin-project-structure rules.

Become part of the community!<br>
Leave a ⭐ and share the link with your friends.<br>

- If you have any questions or need help creating a configuration that meets your requirements, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/discussions/new?category=help).
- If you have found a bug or an error in the documentation, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/issues/new?assignees=Igorkowalski94&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.md&title=%5BBUG%5D).
- If you have an idea for a new feature or an improvement to an existing one, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/discussions/new?category=ideas).
- If you're interested in discussing project structures across different frameworks or want to vote on a proposed new feature, [click here](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/discussions?discussions_q=).

## 📚 Documentation

- [Migration guide to 2.3.0](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/Migration-guide-to-2.3.0)
- [project-structure/folder-structure](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bfolder%E2%80%91structure#root)
- [project-structure/independent-modules](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bindependent%E2%80%91modules#root)
- [project-structure/naming-rules](https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bnaming%E2%80%91rules#root)

<h2 align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bfolder%E2%80%91structure#root">project&#8209;structure/&#8203;folder&#8209;structure</a></h2>
<p align="center">Enforce rules on folder structure to keep your project consistent, orderly and well thought out.</p>

<h4><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Rocket.png" alt="Rocket" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Features:</h4>

- Validation of folder structure. Any files/folders outside the structure will be considered an error.
- File/Folder name regex validation with features like wildcard `*` and treating `.` as a character, along with other conveniences.
- Build in case validation.
- Inheriting the folder's name. The file/folder inherits the name of the folder in which it is located. Option of adding your own prefixes/suffixes or changing the case.
- Enforcing the existence of a files/folders when a specific file/folder exists. For example, if `./src/Component.tsx` exists, then `./src/Component.test.tsx` and `./src/stories/Component.stories.tsx` must also exist.
- Reusable rules for folder structures.
- An option to create a separate configuration file with TypeScript support.
- Forcing a nested/flat structure for a given folder.
- Support for all file extensions.
- Folder recursion. You can nest a given folder structure recursively.
- Fewer repetitions and precise error messages, even for deeply nested folders (recursion), by representing the folder structure as a tree.
- Checking the length of paths and notifying when the limit is exceeded.

<h2 align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bindependent%E2%80%91modules#root">project&#8209;structure/&#8203;independent&#8209;modules</a></h2>
<p align="center">A key principle of a healthy project is to prevent the creation of a massive dependency tree,
where removing or editing one feature triggers a chain reaction that impacts the entire project.</p>
<p align="center">Create independent modules to keep your project scalable and easy to maintain. Get rid of dependencies between modules and create truly independent functionalities.</p>

<h4><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Rocket.png" alt="Rocket" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Features:</h4>

- Creating independent modules in which you control what can be imported (e.g. types, functions, components of one functionality cannot be imported into another functionality).
- The ability to create very detailed rules, even for nested folder structures. Whether it's a large module, a sub-module, or a single file, there are no limitations.
- Disabling external imports (node_modules) for a given module (Option to add exceptions).
- Non-relative/relative imports support.
- Support for imports without extension.
- Reusable import patterns.
- Support for path aliases. The plugin will automatically detect your tsconfig.json and use your settings. There is also an option to enter them manually.
- An option to create a separate configuration file with TypeScript support.

<h2 align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/wiki/project%E2%80%91structure-%E2%80%8Bnaming%E2%80%91rules#root">project&#8209;structure/&#8203;naming&#8209;rules</a></h2>
<p align="center">Enforce advanced naming rules and prohibit the use of given selectors in a given file.</p>
<p align="center">Have full control over what your file can contain and the naming conventions it must follow.</p>

<h4><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Rocket.png" alt="Rocket" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Features:</h4>

- Naming validation.
- Supported selectors: `class`, `variable`, `function`, `arrowFunction`, `type`, `interface`, `enum`.
- Naming rules for exported selectors, selectors in the root of the file and nested/all selectors in the file. They can be used together in combination.
- Prohibit the use of given selectors in a given file. For example, `**/*.consts.ts` files can only contain variables, `**/*.types.ts` files can only contain enums, interfaces and types.
- Inheriting the filename as the selector name. Option to add your own prefixes/suffixes, change the case, or remove parts of the filename.
- Enforcing a maximum of one main function/class per file.
- Different name rules for different files.
- Regex validation.
- Build in case validation.
- An option to create a separate configuration file with TypeScript support.

<h2><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Party%20Popper.png" alt="Party Popper" width="35" height="35" /></picture> Sponsors</h2>

<p align="center">A big thank you to all the <a href="https://github.com/sponsors/Igorkowalski94">sponsors</a> for your support! You give me the strength and motivation to keep going!</p>
<p align="center"> Thanks to you, I can help others create their ideal projects!</p>
<p align="center"><picture><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Igorkowalski94/eslint-plugin-project-structure/main/images/Love-You%20Gesture.png" alt="Love-You Gesture" width="60px" height="60px" /></picture><p>
